When working with parameterized tests,
if the argument and the parameter types do not match,
the argument type can be converted implicitly.
In particular, for the annotations ValueSource,
CsvSource, and CsvFileSource most of the time, the implicit conversion is
performed when the argument is provided as a string.
A string type can be converted implicitly to primitive types
and the wrapper classes, enums, java.time classes, such as
local date and period, path, currency, locale, and more.
In the JUnit documentation,
you can find a section that specifies all the types to
which a string can be implicitly converted.
In addition to this,
a string can be converted to a particular type if this type declares
exactly one non‑private static factory method that accepts a single
string argument and returns an instance of the type.
The name of the method doesn't matter. But if there are multiple
factory methods with these characteristics,
no conversion will happen.
JUnit can also use a non‑private constructor of the type that accepts a
single string argument, but the type must be declared either as a
top‑level class or as a static nested class.
If a factory method and a constructor are discovered,
the factory method will be the one used.
And if you need something specific to your application,
you can create your own converters.
You only have to implement the interface ArgumentConverter and annotate the
parameter you want to convert with the annotation ConvertWith. The convert
method of this interface receives the object to convert and the context
where the converted object will be used.
However, if you don't need this context,
you can use the abstract class SimpleArgumentConverter that
implements the interface ArgumentConverter,
but its convert method receives the targetType the
source object should be converted into.
But if the converter only converts one type to another,
you can extend type ArgumentConverter to avoid type checks.
All right, let me show you how to implement a custom converter.
Let's say we want to inject an instance of the Product class,
passing the three attributes of a product separated by a semicolon with a
ValueSource annotation. If I run the class as it is right now,
an exception will be thrown, ParameterResolutionException.
So what we need to do is annotate this parameter with ConvertWith,
passing an implementation of the ArgumentConverter interface, in
this case ProductArgumentConverter.
This class extends from type ArgumentConverter, taking a string as
the source type and a product as the target type.
We just need to add to the class a default constructor that
calls the constructor of the TypedArgumentConverter class that
sets these types. And in the convert method, parse the source
string and create the product. If I run the test, you'll see that the arguments were successfully converted.